My excitement yesterday at being honored as the first President of the Second Republic has given way to a sense of honored duty and heavy responsibility today as I take the oath of office. Although this is a solemn occasion, I hope you will not forbear me from briefly expressing some of the thoughts that overwhelm me at this moment of mixed emotion and responsibility.
First, I would like to express my regret and gratitude to the National Assembly for electing a man as immoral and incompetent as myself as President of the Second Republic.

Second, as I have just respectfully sworn to the beloved National Assembly, I have pledged my life for the welfare of the people, and from now on this is truly a government of the people rather than a government for the people, and I cannot hope to resolve today's difficulties without the constructive criticism and active cooperation of the wise people. I would like to reaffirm that the responsibility of today's politics does not rest solely with the administrators, but also with the people who are the pitchers.

Third, the government to be formed in the future must carry out active and powerful policies, and in order to do so, it must first transcend partisanship and form a cabinet with the right people, and reap the beauty of a unified administration with wisdom and fragrant printing. If the holy April Revolution is not the spoils of a single party's power, but the golden tower of the majority of the people's civil rights and the starting point of poverty liberation, rather than a party or organization that may or may not have one, two, or three parties or organizations that come and go, it is the way to compensate for the price of the noble blood shed by the young scholars by giving everything for the sake of the people and the nation that must exist forever.

The government of the Second Republic, which inherited the legacy of political freedom from the April Revolution, must now provide economic freedom for the people to eat and live. Political freedom that is not rooted in economic freedom is like a flower in a vase that will soon wither away. The dictatorship that was afraid of blood is long gone, so our political activities are free today, but the economic corruption that accompanied the dictatorship is still there, and the journey to clean it up is long and arduous, and the country's livelihood is now facing a crisis of unrest. The day this economic crisis is not overcome, not only the life of a cabinet, but also the fate of the nation will depend on it. The government's measures must be economy-first and foremost, and the wise people of the country are called upon to show fortitude, moderation, creativity and hard work. The administration should quickly remove the anti-democracy and corruption elements sown by the dictatorship and carry out bold innovative administration under democratic principles.

In Korea, a backward country with little democratic heritage, we must establish good traditions and history through active and creative administration that creates new things rather than protecting them, and eradicate regime cronyism by reducing the surplus value of the regime.

Next, we need to revolutionize our foreign policy. The regime's diplomacy, stigmatized as the headache of the liberal camp, has been a succession of indecision and inaction, and it is heartbreaking to see that the country has finally been treated as an orphan by world allies. Due to its geographical condition, Korea's fate has historically always been determined by the power relations between neighboring powers, and to make matters worse, the instability of domestic politics has created a power vacuum, so the right attitude of Korea in foreign relations is not only important for our own sake, but also for the international peace in Northeast Asia. It goes without saying that Syngman Rhee's personal characteristics in foreign affairs, which are directly related to the national economy, not only caused national losses, but also led to deceptive diplomacy, which used only the old methods of rationalizing his autocratic policies and deflecting domestic complaints to foreign countries to avoid domestic political crises. Diplomacy should be about negotiations and transactions, centering on the real interests of Korea and reconciling conflicting interests with other countries through peaceful means. This is what we call democratic diplomacy today. We need to restart our diplomatic activities with a new foreign policy and a new diplomatic system.

There are so many other things I would like to say. But for today, I'll just say a few words of greetings.


