My fellow countrymen and women. Today I stand before my people for the third time to proclaim myself President.

I am humbled and honored by the confidence my fellow-citizens have placed in my leadership, and I pledge myself to devote my whole heart and ability to the welfare of our nation, in peace and in war, in all its relations, domestic and foreign.

These next four years are the most critical in our history. It is necessary to reflect on the history that has brought us to this point, with many sacrifices, for the sake of the many great problems that lie ahead.

Our most urgent and desperate issue is unification. To allow Korea to remain divided, even for a moment, would be unfair to our people and a threat to world peace. On the other hand, to reunify Korea would be a great honor for the United Nations and a great success for all countries that believe in reason and justice in international relations.

The second great problem in our international affairs is Japan's growing intimacy with the Communist Party, which has been sending envoys to China and North Korea in succession, creating ties with the Communists.

Every day our police are trying to catch communists who are sneaking into our country and reveal their actions to you. These people are coming in well equipped with arms and finances, and their purpose is to incite disturbances and revolutionary movements in our country. If Japan continues to follow in the footsteps of the communists in Peking and Moscow, what will be the result? The free world will realize what is at stake and stand up in time.

Next, speaking of our own internal affairs, in my opinion, the progress of democratization in the first eight years that have passed is indeed a rare success in history. Those who fell for Japanese propaganda doubted that the Korean people were ready to run the country competently and independently.

Today, we can see that our government is divided into three branches, with the executive, legislative, and judicial branches developing in parallel, and that we have held several elections, both nationally and locally, and that each time we are deeply convinced that the sovereignty of our country lies with the people, and that the rights of our voters are increasing, and a solid foundation has been laid.

Social and educational progress is a tremendous success. Among all the difficult problems, our country has become a country of earned education, and the education system is such that our young people have unprecedented opportunities to learn anything and everything.

We have overcome all the deadlines and diseases, and we have handed over all our farmlands to the farmers so that they can become the owners of the farmlands. Our sons and daughters are advancing day by day in the political, social and economic spheres, and our youth are advancing with the brightness of the new world.

We are also making great strides in our economic development, so much so that until the latter part of 1953 most of our American aid was spent on band-aids and not on rebuilding our productive forces, but we are thankful that that policy has been reversed and we are now making remarkable progress in rebuilding our war-torn economy. Cities that were totally destroyed in the war, like Wonju and Chuncheon, are being rebuilt day by day, and new factories have been built in the past few years that are producing benefits for our people to enjoy for generations to come.

When I say in these few words what has been accomplished, I mean that we should be more optimistic and determined to overcome all the difficult problems that lie ahead of us. Our government recognizes all these difficult problems and also recognizes that we need a long-term plan to advance the welfare of our people. The sequence of the long-term plan that we will create and implement will be about five years ahead, and the conditions under which we will strive and succeed are roughly as follows.

The first is that we will develop a lot of small and medium-sized industries, so let's make them all private and free, so that we can increase the productive capacity of the whole country, so that we can have something to use at home and something to export abroad, and at the same time provide jobs so that there will be no unemployment.

Our people have enough ingenuity and energy to invent, and what we need most now is on both sides of the river, so that we will take care of the needs of the banks and get them up and running, and let them make loans to small and medium-sized industries, and we will sell off all the remaining property and make it private property, and I will do as much as I can in this direction as President, and I will call upon Congress to co-operate with me in a patriotic manner, and I hope to reach and carry out with speed and precision these many important undertakings.

We will endeavor to increase the production of rice and other grains, and this must be done by improving the repair work and reclamation work, and the price of grain is usually the standard for the price of goods, so increasing production is the basis for achieving and maintaining economic security, so that government officials and salaried people can live with what they earn and support themselves and their families, and one thing in particular I would like to say about this is that we will endeavor to increase the food rations of our armed forces so that there will be no one to give them.

The second thing is that it is necessary to implement a new system and an improved way of circulating money and buying and selling things for the sake of our farmers, and right now the Ministry of Agriculture is working to complete the organization of the National Farmers' Association, and if this is successful, all the property that belonged to the old farmers' association will be turned over to it, because the old farmers' association was dissolved before the war and its property is kept in the Ministry of Agriculture, but after the new farmers' association is organized, that property will also be turned over to the farmers' association. This new farmers' council will have only agricultural relations and nothing to do with politics, and it will take over and claim the Agricultural Bank as a joint-stock company, and it will have the right to sell fertilizer and the right to buy and sell grain, and it will give loans to the farmers so that they can get money at a small interest rate. Under this order, the farmers will not have to pay usury, and we will be able to prevent the price of rice from rising every spring and summer.

The third is to stabilize the economy, and this problem has already been corrected, and the 500 to 1 dalasi exchange rate that we agreed to with the United States last year has been a great help, so let's increase the production of rice and other grains, let's increase the capacity of the factories, and let's fully encourage the system of buying and selling agricultural products and the export of agricultural products. From now on, when we import grain from abroad, we will have to make sure that it comes in on time, because if it doesn't come in on time, we won't be able to prevent the price of rice from going up to the point of insanity. We will have to make sure that the exchange rate is absolutely protected so that the whole country can benefit economically, and this is the position of the people, and the people must protect it.

The policy we are about to undertake is vast, but it is capable of success, and with the understanding and sympathy of the United States to help us in our plan of reconstruction, we shall be able to reach our goal.

As it is our policy to work wholeheartedly for the welfare of our people, we will proceed unitedly and in a spirit of sacrifice, and all our actions and thoughts will be directed to the first aid of our country; such is the spirit of our administration, and such is our request to Congress and to all the people.

In conclusion, what I would like to say to our dear compatriots is that the world seems to be entering the trap of coexistentialism, but this will not last long.

We swear once again that we will not hesitate to contribute our lives and everything we have for the sake of Korea, which we have established as an independent and unified democratic nation. We know that without national independence, there is no freedom for us as individuals, and we will choose death over life without freedom. I know that God Almighty will help us as we move forward unitedly under this oath.

