Dear 60 million compatriots at home and abroad. I would like to thank President Yun Bo-sun for supporting the development of our constitution, our predecessors President Choi Kyu-ha and President Chun Doo-hwan for setting a historical precedent for the peaceful transfer of government, and the distinguished ambassadors and guests from around the world who have graced this occasion. Today, we are gathered in front of this hallowed hall of democracy to declare the dawn of a new era. As I take office as the 13th President of the Republic of Korea, 40 years after the establishment of democratic government in this country and with the tide of history calling for a new country and a new era, I bow my head deeply to all my ancestors who established a national home on this land in the distant past. First of all, I recognize the indomitable spirit of self-reliance that has kept the nation's pride alive for half a millennium by creating a shining cultural heritage, overcoming countless foreign invasions and trials. I pay new tribute to my brothers and sisters, compatriots, whose hands are marked with traces of hardship. Our hands were bare, poverty-stricken and war-torn, but with the desire to make a good living, we sweated and toiled, and this country has grown into an emerging industrial nation that the world looks up to, and now a democracy with a tradition of peaceful transfers of government. Truly, our people have been great, and this remarkable national achievement is a source of infinite encouragement to all of us who are striving to become an advanced nation before the 20th century passes. Standing at the starting point of a new national history, I am deeply grateful for the hard work of all those who have sweated to make this day possible. My fellow citizens. History has tested our nation many times before, and new challenges are being imposed on us, which we have overcome with patience, wisdom, and the united strength of our people. It is a call for the entire nation to rise to new heights. It is a call for a new era of national pride to blossom. I solemnly declare before you, the people, that this new era of national pride has dawned. People. We can do it. We must. We must successfully meet new challenges with active self-reform. A bird must break its own egg before it can fly to the great beyond. It is time for us, too, to break the old mold with the creative zeal of the pioneers who made something out of nothing, and let the whole nation enjoy democracy and prosperity, so that we can soar to become a unified nation of freedom and pride. The new era is clearly an era of progress, of change, renewal, and leapfrogging, an era of energized progress, so it is time to put an end to the excessive squabbling among us. The past is certainly an asset and a mirror of reflection for all of us, but it cannot be an endless shackle on our steps as we move forward into the bright world of the future. Moreover, the democratic choice of our great people last year has washed away all the dregs of conflict that have accumulated over the 40 years of our history. Let us now bury all our local feelings, partisan self-interest and personal grievances in this square of new beginnings. In the spirit of forgiving one another and stepping aside from one another, the hateful resentments we bury today will become the precious foundation for the rich fruits of democracy and welfare that we and our descendants will reap, People. From this moment on, let us sail boldly across the open seas with our eyes on the "land of hope" where freedom and happiness abound for all. We have a new map and compass. It is the map of democracy and the compass of national unity that you, the people, affirmed and agreed upon when you elected me directly to the presidency. And now, with that resounding sound that signals the inauguration of a new republic, we will move steadfastly forward on the path of democracy - and not just because it is the buzzword of the day. It is because democracy is a legitimate value that makes us human, and only democracy will lead us to a society where everyone lives freely and participates freely, a society where people are people. The days when autonomy and human rights can be neglected in favor of economic growth and security are over. The days when brute force or torture behind closed doors work are over. Likewise, the era in which chaos can be irresponsibly wreaked in the name of autonomy and participation must also come to an end. When human rights are not violated and autonomy with responsibility is secured, a mature democratic era of economic development and security will be ushered in. A society in which people living with integrity live boldly and vigorously everywhere without fear, a democratic country in which each citizen is truly the owner of the country and participates creatively in its development, will be built. With the entry into force of the new constitution that embodies the will of the people, the new information that is being born at this very hour declares that this is a government of the people, where the people are the owners. The government I lead will usher in an era of democracy that will allow the potential of every citizen to blossom. New Information will help each segment of our pluralistic society enjoy vibrant freedom and fulfill its own power. The people are yearning for an honest government. I must fulfill the people's wishes and create a government of high morals and trustworthiness. The shadow of an upright object cannot bend over the bright earth. I will ensure that the leadership, including myself, exemplify honesty and truth. I will keep my promises to the people. The cheers that supported me in the last election were strength and criticism was medicine. I will deeply consider the feelings of those who did not vote for me and reflect them in the national government. I will never ignore their criticisms. In this sense, I also appeal to the opposition and opposing forces. Let us work together for the sake of our country by talking and dialoguing while suffering together. Let us work as partners in cooperation for the blossoming of democracy and the unified prosperity of our country. Dear people. We will also sail through that blue sea toward the destination of national reunification. The development history since the 70s has taught us a sobering lesson that no matter how high and sustained economic growth is, it alone cannot bring us to the harmonious, balanced and happy society we idealize. Of course, high growth has made our material life more generous and transformed our primary-industry-centered society into a pluralistic industrial society, but it has also created reefs all along the way. Class and regional disparities are breeding conflict and division, posing a major challenge to national unity. Without addressing these issues, our voyage towards a democratic and welfare state may be frustrated. Therefore, the people are urgently calling for a cordial unity that will melt away the conflicts and divisions. Yes, it is time for the government and people from all walks of life to come together to realize an honest and just distribution of the fruits of our high growth. No one should be disadvantaged or unfairly reap the rewards because of where they come from, their gender, or their political stance; no one should be unfairly sacrificed in the process of emphasizing the development of the nation as a whole; no one should be denied their rightful share; no one should be left behind when the sick are healed and the needy are supported. I will further encourage the creativity and freedom of entrepreneurs, and I will maximize the rights of workers, farmers, fishermen, and small and medium-sized businesses. I will do everything in my power to ensure that the next generation, who will bear the burden of our country's future, receive a quality education. I will do everything in my power to ensure that young people embrace their ideals and dreams to build an enterprising society that is always reforming and renewing itself. This era we are creating will be handed over to today's young people in the not-too-distant future, and they must lead it. We will embrace their dreams and passions as valuable nutrients for progress. We will exert all our efforts to help our people, who have achieved economic miracles through the promotion of academia and culture, create a brilliant era of literary and artistic revival, so that all citizens can enjoy high-quality cultural life, have a generous heart for understanding their neighbors, and pursue beauty. We will firmly reject any form of privilege or corruption that hinders the realization of social justice and exacerbates conflicts. We will stop violence, speculation, and rising prices. A society where the unjust accumulation and ubiquity of wealth is eliminated and where everyone can reap the rewards and fruits of hard work and design their future with hope is the Great Era of Ordinary People. With democratic reform and national unity, we are now in the midst of ushering in the "Great Age of Ordinary People." However, national unity is not only a government policy, but also a flower that blooms in the hearts of each and every citizen. Therefore, let's not postpone the unity of the entire nation as a governmental task. Let's think of it as a problem that we all need to solve generously, starting from our own hearts. In this sense, those who are ahead should move forward together, pulling those who are behind. Those who have more should show restraint and grace to those who have less. Dear people. The Seoul Olympics, a major milestone for our country, is just around the corner. A peace festival of 5 billion people will be held right here on our soil. At this moment of national rebirth, when Korea's place in the world is newly revealed, you and I will not be seen separately. Let us all work together to make this the most successful Games ever, one that will be remembered by all the people of the world. We all need to recognize that the Seoul Olympics is not only important in the sense of national history, but it is also important for us to enter the path of national reunification. Riding on the wave of tension reduction and peaceful coexistence, this great chorus of unity, in which all the countries of the world, East and West, South and North, are participating for the first time in 12 years, is announcing to the world that an era of reunification is finally dawning on the Korean Peninsula. In response to this resounding chorus, we, the Republic of Korea, will intensify our diplomatic efforts for international peace and cooperation with all countries of the world. We will further strengthen our ties with the West, including the United States and Japan, and deepen our friendship with the Third World. Improved relations with countries of different ideologies and systems will contribute to stability, peace, and shared prosperity in East Asia. This diplomatic corridor to the North will also open the way to reunification. Here I appeal to our compatriots who are eager for an early resolution of the division. The road to national reunification, which we cannot forget, is not a road to optimism, nor is it a road to pessimism; it is only a road to which we must put forth our best efforts. At the right time, a mood of national pride has grown within us, and this mood is a powerful driving force for our national reunification and global advancement. Therefore, on the basis of national pride, we must open the road to reunification while building democratic capacity and strengthening our security posture. Let's always remember the lesson that opportunities come to those who prepare more diligently than those who wait. I would like to express my willingness to visit any part of the world and have serious talks with anyone who sees a way forward for peace on the Korean Peninsula and the reunification of our peoples. To the North Korean authorities, I say: abandon the illusion that the free citizens of this democratic land will accept dogmatic ideology that even communist countries reject. Accept that dialogue, not violence, is the honest path to bridging the divide and reuniting the people. Affirm that the door to dialogue is always open everywhere. Let us live up to the new era of national pride and bring a spring of reconciliation to the ceasefire line by dialoguing, coexisting and cooperating, so that in the not-too-distant future, we can reap the fruits of reunification together. To the countries involved. The Korean Peninsula issue will basically be resolved peacefully by the parties in the North and South through democratic means. However, if a messenger of peace and reunification visits Seoul from any part of the world, we will gladly accept it. We will not give anyone special treatment and we will not be afraid of anyone, dear people. The 20th century, which began by bringing us pain and frustration, is coming to an end having laid the foundation for our overcoming it. Beyond the horizon of the 20th century, the future of a unified Korea is beckoning us. When we ignite our people's already soaring talent and national pride toward the great goal of a national leap forward, our country will surely leap to become the young giant of the world leading the Asian and Pacific era. How much sacrifice and sweat have our forefathers and foremothers shed in the past to get this golden opportunity. The era of "ordinary people" has come, where any work that is useful to this country can be done by anyone, not just one person. It is an "age of common sense," where the cooperation of many people with ordinary common sense is more necessary than the brilliance of one person. It is also an "age of welfare," where the development of the country leads to the freedom, prosperity, and happiness of each individual. Fellow citizens. Today, on this holy dais, I stand with you, the people. This seat was created by the people, and my standing here is at the behest of the people. Therefore, this seat and I, who stand here, are inseparable from the people. With this in mind, I pledge to be a president who breathes with the people and thinks with the people. I don't want to be a president who leads the people unilaterally, and I won't be a president who is led either. A companion of the people, standing shoulder to shoulder with the people, sharing their dreams and pain, this is the kind of president I truly seek. We are all now standing on the starting line of 'democracy walking together'. Let us all, as owners of this glorious dais today, take steps forward with confidence and courage for the future, boldly and unitedly, so that we can move forward together toward the "land of hope,,," as our favorite national song envisions, "a land of liberty, equality, peace, and happiness. My fellow Americans. Let's move forward with me. Thank you.
