Dear 70 million compatriots at home and abroad,

President Roh Tae-woo and former presidents,

and other distinguished guests.

We have gathered here today to usher in an era of civilian democracy that we have longed for. We have had to wait 30 years for this day.

We have finally established a government of the people, by the people, for the people. The government that is being born today is the result of the people's burning desire for democracy and their holy sacrifice. Standing here today in front of this National Assembly, which is imbued with my own passion and suffering for democracy, I cannot suppress my overwhelming emotions.

Our people are truly great. I extend my sincere gratitude and honor to you, the people. I also bow my head with the people before the noble sacrifices of those who have gone before us, who did not live to see this day in the tortuous road of democratization.

Dear People.

On the occasion of my inauguration as the 14th President of the Republic of Korea, I feel with all my heart the call of the times to build a new nation. Right now, the land is stirring with springtime energy from deep within its strata.

In the past, our nation has had summers of prosperity and winters of hibernation, but now a new spring of national rejuvenation is dawning. It is calling for a new determination, a new start.

I hold the dream of creating a new Korea close to my heart.

A new Korea is a freer and more mature democratic society. A society where justice flows like a river. It is a community that lives together in abundance. It is a country where cultural life and human dignity are respected. It is a unified homeland where divided peoples live together in peace.

It is a country that stands at the center of a new civilization, contributing to world peace and human progress. A society where everyone can work with excitement, a country where our descendants can be proud to be born on this earth, that is the new Korea. Let us all pursue this dream.

We are a people who once made a miracle out of the ruins of colonization and war. Let us rise again to face the world.

My fellow citizens.

But the conditions that surround us are by no means favorable. With the end of the Cold War, the world has seen a realignment of enemies and allies. We have entered an era of economic and technological warfare.

If we fail to cope with the changing world, we will languish on the threshold of the developed world. If we do not leap, we will fall. It is a matter of solemn national survival.

We need to build up the stamina to run toward a new Korea, but right now we are sick. We are suffering from the Korean disease.

Our hard work and creativity, once the envy of the world, are fading. Our society is faltering under the weight of evangelized values.

For some reason, our people are losing confidence. And that is the problem.

If we have a crisis, it's not coming from external challenges, it's this mental defeatism that's growing within us.

It can't go on like this. It has to be renewed. We have to move beyond frustration and stagnation and usher in an era of courage and hope.

From closure and rigidity to openness and vitality, from conflict and confrontation to dialog and cooperation.

We must move from a society of distrust to a society of trust, from a society of me-too to a society of togetherness.

This is the direction of change and reform I am talking about.

We need to change not only the system, but also our consciousness and behavior. If we avoid change and reform, we will be rejected by history.

Dear people.

Reform must begin with action on three fronts.

The first is to tackle corruption.

The second is to revive the economy.

The third is to restore our national integrity.

Corruption in our society is the most terrifying enemy that eats away at a country from within. There are no sanctuaries in the fight against corruption.

There will never be sanctuaries. What must be cut must be cut, and what must be cut must be cut.

Reforms from above will begin soon.

But corruption will not be eradicated unless the people themselves make an effort to clean up their act.

The realization of a clean society can only be accomplished by the people themselves.

Next, we need to revitalize the economy. To do this, the government will ensure autonomy and competition instead of regulation and protection. Private creativity will be respected. The government will tighten its belt first.

People will have to save and save some more. Luxury and waste will have to be banished.

Workers will have to sweat harder and work harder.

Businesses will have to innovate boldly to win international competition.

Only by working together - government and people, workers and businesses - can we revitalize our economy.

This is the new economy I advocate.

To the people.

We need to rebuild our national discipline.

When power is gained through fraudulent means, national orthodoxy is undermined and the rule of law is broken. Cronyism reigns, where procedures are ignored in favor of ends.

There will never again be a political night in this land.

And we need to reclaim the authority that should be in our society.

Our freedom should be for the good of the community. It should be freedom to plant flowers in the park, not freedom to pluck them, as Mr. Baekbum said.

We must lift up the morals that have fallen to the ground.

In this regard, today's education should be a human education that cultivates people who are people and civilized citizens along with science and technology education that prepares for the future.

This is the new education.

Dear people.

From today, the government will be different.

From now on, the Cheong Wa Dae will be a workplace that protects the lives and property of the people and works day and night for the safety and prosperity of the nation.

Cheong Wa Dae will become a friendly neighbor to the people.

I will be there where the people are working, where there is joy and pain. I will rejoice with the people and suffer with them.

Because joy is bigger when shared, and pain is smaller when shared.

Politics must also be different.

It should not be politics for politics' sake, but a living politics that brings hope and happiness to the people. We need a politics that relieves people's inconveniences, a politics that listens to people's small voices.

When the government becomes different, when politics becomes different, living stability through change and reform will be established on this land.

Dear people.

Let us open the doors of a new era with justice and reconciliation.

In the past, we have been torn by class, divided by region, divided by generations, and divided by ideology.

The walls between us must come down. The chains must be loosened.

There are too many people in our society who have lived in the shadows. They need to be uplifted.

Those who have more need to give more. Those who are powerful need to give more.

Let's not be so quick to demand our share. Let's think of our community first.

And let's make a bigger loaf so that we can have a bigger share.

Dear 70 million compatriots at home and abroad.

I will fulfill the responsibility that history and my people have entrusted to me and devote myself wholeheartedly to national reconciliation and reunification.

But what we need at this point is not a sentimental unification secularism; it is a national consensus on unification.

I say to President Kim Il Sung. We must be sincerely prepared to cooperate with each other. The world is moving toward an era of peace and cooperation, not confrontation.

There are many kinds of cooperation between different peoples and nations.

But no alliance can be better than an ethnicity.

No ideology or any idea can bring greater happiness than a people.

If Mr. Kim truly values his people more than his country, and if he wants to see true reconciliation and reunification of his compatriots in North and South Korea, we can meet anytime and anywhere to discuss this.

Let's meet at the foot of Hallasan Mountain on a warm spring day, or at the foot of Mt. Paektu on a summer day, and let's discuss the future of our nation from the heart.

Then we will be able to solve all our problems while standing at the origin of the same people.

To the 5 million compatriots abroad who are living with national pride in every corner of the world, within this century, our country will be reunified and become a homeland of freedom and peace.

Let us all work together at home and abroad to usher in an era of proud Korean people fulfilling their roles and responsibilities in the world.

Dear people.

The creation of a new Korea is not the work of one person. It is the work of all of us.

There are many New Koreans here today.

They are laborers toiling away, farmers earning income from new crops, students studying hard, science students immersed in research, businessmen working to develop markets, small and medium-sized enterprises developing new products, and soldiers defending our country all night long.

And then there are the public servants who quietly serve the people.

Those who are doing their best in their fields are the masters and masters of creating a new Korea.

Especially the young people of this country.

Let's look to the world and the future. Let's go from bystander to participant, from criticizing to creating.

The future is yours, and the new Korea is your world.

Dear people.

Let us all realize our dreams and hopes for the future. Let's create a new Korea.

The creation of a new Korea cannot be accomplished by the power of a single president or government alone.

There is no you and me on the road to a new Korea, only us. We have to do it together.

But a new Korea will not happen overnight.

It takes patience and time. It takes tears and sweat. It will take pain.

Let's share the pain together.

We can do it. We must do it.

So, let's all start anew with our hopes and dreams.

Let's move forward together, with no one left behind.

Thank you.
