Honored and beloved citizens of the Republic of Korea!

Today I am inaugurated as the 15th President of the Republic of Korea. As I rejoice with you in the first ruling and opposition change in 50 years of government, I would like to express my praise and gratitude to you, the people, for overcoming all trials and barriers to create a true "government of the people.

I would also like to express my sincere gratitude to all of you who have joined us here to celebrate my inauguration, including our distinguished guests, including former President Kim Young-sam, former President von Weizsäcker of Germany, former President Corazon Aquino of the Philippines, and IOC President Juan Antonio Samaranch.

The historic significance of today's inauguration is indeed great. Today is a proud day for the first democratic transition of power in this country, and it is also a historic day for a government that seeks to develop both democracy and the economy at the same time.

This government is truly a 'government of the people', created by the power of the people. All glory and blessings go to the people, and I firmly pledge to serve them with all my heart and soul.

My fellow citizens!

In three years, we will enter a new century. The opening of the 21st century marks not just the turn of a century, but the beginning of a new revolution. From the human revolution that brought man to earth, through the five revolutions of agricultural revolution, urban revolution, ideological revolution, and industrial revolution, mankind is now entering a new era of revolution.

The world is moving from an industrial society in which tangible resources were a factor in economic development to a knowledge and information society in which intangible knowledge and information are the driving force for economic development.

The information revolution is turning the world into a global village, leading the transition from a national economy to a global economy. The information age is a time when anyone, anytime, anywhere, can obtain and use information easily and cheaply. This is only possible in a democratic society.

We are in the midst of this great civilizational transition, and we must respond to the new challenges with all our might. Unfortunately, at this pivotal time, we are faced with the greatest national crisis since June 25.

We are facing a crisis that could bankrupt our country if we get it wrong. We're deeply in debt, and we're scrambling to keep up with the daily tide of maturing foreign debt.

It's a ridiculous situation, and we're only averted thanks to the patriotic cooperation of our people and the help of the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank, and our friends in the United States, Japan, Canada, Australia, and the European Union.

Over the course of the year, prices will rise, unemployment will rise, incomes will fall, companies will go bankrupt, and we are all being asked for our blood, sweat, and tears.

We need to take a sober look at how we got here. If our political, economic, and financial leaders hadn't been steeped in cronyism and crony finance, and if our conglomerates hadn't had an octopus-like grip on uncompetitive companies, none of this would have happened.

It is painful and upsetting to think that the fault lies with the leaders and the suffering lies with the innocent people. Those responsible for this ruin must be brought to justice before the people.

Honorable people!

In the midst of today's difficulties, you have shown remarkable patriotism and strength. We have accomplished the feat of peaceful regime change between the ruling and opposition parties amidst the shock of the IMF era.

You, the people, have embarked on a "gold hunt" to overcome the country's crisis and have already collected over $2 billion in gold. I am infinitely proud of your patriotism, which is more precious than gold. Thank you, people.

Meanwhile, our workers are sharing the pain by voluntarily freezing their wages, even at the cost of their own lives. Businesses are putting their full weight behind exports, resulting in large current account surpluses for the past three months in a row. The world is marveling at the patriotism and strength of the Korean people.

Workers, employers, and the government have laid the foundation for overcoming the national crisis through dialogue and great compromise. I would like to join the people in applauding the representatives of labor and management for making this happen.

To the opposition, the majority party in the National Assembly, I make a sincere request. Today's difficulties can never be overcome without your cooperation. I will discuss everything with you. I need you to help me, even for one year, when the country is standing on a precipice. I believe the whole nation is hoping for this.

Dear people!

Right now, the country is facing setbacks and crises in all fields: politics, economy, society, foreign affairs, security, and the North-South issue. In order to overcome this, total reform must be carried out.

First and foremost, political reform must take place. Participatory democracy, in which the people are treated as owners and play a role, must be realized. Only then will the national government become transparent and corruption disappear.

I will make sure that 'politics by the people' and 'politics owned by the people' are realized together with the people.

The 'government of the people' will not engage in any political retaliation. I will not tolerate any discrimination or favoritism. I firmly vow to make sure that there will never be any talk of regional regimes or provincial discrimination again.

The government will take the lead in sharing the pain and create an efficient government. We will greatly devolve powers and functions concentrated in the central government to the private sector and local governments.

However, we will work harder to protect people's lives and property, preserve the environment, and promote welfare.

'Small but powerful government', this is the goal of the Government of the People.

The greatest challenge facing the Government of the People is to overcome our economic difficulties and revitalize our economy. The Government of the People will combine democracy and economic development.

Democracy and the market economy are two sides of the same coin, two wheels of the same cart, and cannot be separated. Countries that have embraced democracy and the market economy together have been successful.

But countries that rejected democracy and embraced market economies have failed miserably, as Nazi Germany and militarized Japan demonstrated. After World War II, these countries embraced democracy and market economies together, and today they enjoy freedom and prosperity.

When democracy and the market economy develop in harmony, there is no place for nepotism, cronyism, and corruption.

I am convinced that the crisis we are facing today can be overcome by practicing democracy and market economy in parallel.

In order to revive the economy, we must first control prices. No economic policy can succeed without price stability. We will give equal importance to large and small enterprises, but we will ensure the autonomy of large enterprises and intensive support for small and medium-sized enterprises so that both can develop together.

We will also uphold the principle of strict competition, and create a country where entrepreneurs who make the highest quality and cheapest goods in the world and earn a lot of foreign currency are respected.

With the conviction of technology immigration, we will boldly pursue policies that will enable us to emerge as a technological powerhouse in the 21st century's high-tech industrial era.

Venture companies are the flower of the new century, and we must actively foster them to create high-value-added products and develop the economy by leaps and bounds. Venture companies will create many jobs and contribute greatly to solving the unemployment problem.

The five reforms that the "people's government" has already agreed with big business, namely corporate transparency, prohibition of mutual payment guarantees, sound financial structure, establishment of core companies and cooperation with small and medium-sized enterprises, and establishment of accountability of controlling shareholders and managers, must be implemented.

This is the only way for businesses to live and our economy to take off again. The government will strictly guarantee the autonomy of enterprises, but it will also strictly require enterprises to make self-reform efforts.

The "people's government" will endeavor to attract foreign investment as much as exports, which is the most effective way to pay off foreign debt, enhance the competitiveness of domestic companies, and increase the transparency of our economy.

We must prioritize agriculture and realize self-sufficiency in rice production. I will strongly promote policies to improve the incomes and welfare of farmers and fishermen, including debt relief, disaster compensation, guaranteed prices for agricultural products, and prioritized improvement of rural education conditions.

I firmly believe that if we push forward with the right economic reforms with the support of our patriotic, motivated and proud people, our economy will surely overcome today's difficulties and chart a new course from the second half of next year.


Dear People!

Please believe in me and actively help me. I will fulfill your expectations.

People, we need a revolution of spirit for a healthy society. A revolution where human beings are respected and justice is emphasized as the highest value. A society where those who live rightly succeed and those who don't fail. We must share the pain and the reward, we must share the joy, we must shed the sweat and reap the fruit together.

I will devote everything to this mental revolution and the realization of a right society.

Even the elderly and the disabled should be given work if they are able to work and warmly embraced if they are not. I will be the "people's president" who wipes away the tears of the marginalized and encourages the sighing.

We are a people with a high level of education and a glorious cultural tradition. We are a brilliant people, capable of making great contributions to the information society of the 21st century. The new government will strive to ensure that our younger generations become the main players in the knowledge and information society. We will teach computers in elementary schools and allow students to choose computer subjects in university entrance exams. We will build the foundation of an information superpower by making Korea the most computerized country in the world.

Education reform is the key to solving the many problems facing our society today. We will dramatically reform the college entrance examination system and create a merit-based society; free young people from tutoring and parents from excessive private education costs; and realize a holistic education of intellect, virtue, and body, where knowledge, character, and physical strength are equally important.

I take this opportunity to pledge that these educational reforms will be accomplished at all costs.

We must focus on the globalization of our national culture. We will inherit and develop the high cultural values contained in our traditional culture. The cultural industry is a key industry in the 21st century. It is a treasure trove of wealth with infinite markets for tourism, conferences, video, cultural specialties, etc.

The middle class is the foundation of a nation. We will do our best to ensure that the middle class, including salaried people, small and medium-sized enterprises, and the self-employed, enjoy a stable and happy life.

The people's government will actively work to ensure the rights and empowerment of women. The barriers of gender discrimination must be eliminated at home, in society, and in the workplace.

The youth are the hope and strength of the nation, and the government will provide generous support for their education, culture, and well-being.

Dear People!

The 21st century is a century of competition and cooperation. Diplomacy in the age of globalization demands a shift in thinking from the Cold War era. The focus of diplomacy in the 21st century will shift to economics and culture. We will expand trade, investment, tourism, and cultural exchanges to navigate an era of unlimited competition through cooperation.

Our security must be self-reliant and collective. We will strengthen our independent security posture based on national unity and a morale-boosting military. At the same time, we will never neglect collective security, such as strengthening the U.S.-ROK security system. We will actively work to ensure the success of the four-party talks to build peace on the Korean Peninsula.

Inter-Korean relations must be based on reconciliation, cooperation, and peaceful settlement.

After more than half a century of division, the cold war between the two Koreas, in which separated families do not even know whether their parents and siblings are alive or dead, let alone engage in dialogue and exchange, must end as soon as possible. The guilt of our ancestors, who maintained the unification of Korea for more than 1,300 years, is unrelenting.

The way to resolve the inter-Korean problem is already open. It is the implementation of the Inter-Korean Basic Agreement adopted on December 13, 1991. There is already a complete agreement between the authorities of the two Koreas on three points: reconciliation, exchange and cooperation, and supplementary legislation. If this is implemented, we can successfully resolve the inter-Korean problem and pave the way for reunification.

I would like to take this opportunity to clarify the three principles for the DPRK.

First, we will never tolerate any armed provocation.

Second, we have no intention of harming or absorbing North Korea.

Third, we will actively promote reconciliation and cooperation between the two Koreas wherever possible.

We are willing to support North Korea's efforts to engage in exchanges and cooperation with friendly countries and international organizations, such as the United States and Japan.

The new government will fulfill its promise to build a light water reactor in North Korea despite the current economic difficulties. We will not be stingy in providing food aid through reasonable means, both government and private.

I make an appeal to the North Korean authorities. Many separated families are growing old and slowly passing away. We must ensure that families in the two Koreas meet and communicate with each other as soon as possible. I note with keen interest the recent positive steps taken by the DPRK in this regard. I also hope that cultural and academic exchanges and economic exchanges based on the separation of the two Koreas will be expanded.

I hope that the inter-Korean exchanges under the Inter-Korean Basic Agreement will be realized in various fields. First of all, I propose the exchange of envoys for the implementation of the Inter-Korean Basic Agreement. I am also willing to hold a summit if the North wants it.

The new government will make active efforts to strengthen close ties with our overseas compatriots and protect their rights and interests. We will actively help our overseas compatriots to fulfill their rights and duties as citizens of their countries of residence and to have stability and pride as Koreans.

Honored and beloved people!

We are now at a crossroads of advancement and retreat. Let us overcome the hardships that stand in our way and move forward vigorously. Let's open a new era of national recovery and rebirth.

Half a millennium of history is watching over us. The spirit of our ancestors is encouraging us.

Like our proud ancestors who saved the nation with their indomitable will at every turn of the national tribulation, we too will become the creators of great history by overcoming today's hardships and practicing a leap forward to tomorrow. Let's use today's crisis as a call to arms.

Our people can do it. Our history of rising from the ashes of June 25 proves it. I will lead the way, and we will move forward hand in hand. Let's overcome the national crisis. Let's make a second leap forward.

And let's raise the glory of Korea once again.

Thank you.
