Dear compatriots at home and abroad!

And distinguished foreign and domestic guests!

We are gathered today at the glorious gateway of the Fifth Republic, where the old world, marred by trials, is being liquidated and a new era is blossoming under the banner of creation, reform and development.

I wish to express my deepest gratitude and respect to the people of the country for entrusting me with the enormous responsibility of being their President at this momentous and landmark transition in our nation's history.

The overwhelming support you have given me in this 12th presidential election is not only an immense honor, but also a whip that makes my responsibilities even heavier.

I solemnly pledge to my 50 million compatriots that I will repay your expectations by giving my all to the country and the fight to faithfully fulfill the historic mandate entrusted to me.

Fellow citizens!

The motherland is not only the present generation's, it is not only the supreme value that our ancestors have handed down to us with their blood, it is the home of history in which we and our descendants will live forever.

Looking back at history, our people have been on this earth for half a millennium, overcoming countless challenges and trials, including the outcry, and blossoming a unique culture. When I think about it, countless powerful peoples on the Asian continent have risen and fallen, and many of them have already lost their history and culture, but my people have protected and developed their shining cultural traditions and homogeneity, contributing greatly to the creation of the brilliant East Asian culture.

However, I am also well aware of how the history of my people is steeped in the woes of weakness and exile.

I was born in a time when my country was lost.

I grew up in the harsh experience of colonization, as did my people of my generation. Our words and writings have been taken from us, our names have been taken from us, and we are to return them purely to our fate.

We must not forget the disgrace of the past. If we are to be the true masters of our country, our hearts must be alive, and we must scourge ourselves with the history of disgrace whenever the hearts of the people are stirred. We cannot allow our country to be sunk again. We must therefore awaken from all complacency and complacency.

Dear People!

In my last speech, I proposed the indigenization of democracy, the construction of a welfare society, the realization of a just society, and educational innovation and cultural creation as national indicators. I will do everything in my power to ensure that these four indicators will continue to build on their foundation and take strong roots during my tenure.

However, I would like to take this opportunity to point out one important fact: no matter how good our indicators are, they are meaningless without a strong national security foundation.

Especially in light of today's neighborhood situation on the Korean Peninsula and the unpredictable international tides and geopolitical conditions of the 80s, we need to be more alert.

National security is an irreplaceable condition of survival, and we must make it our constitution to prioritize national security.

People of Japan!

Today, after another 36 years of liberation from Japanese colonial rule, we are inaugurating the Fifth Republic. This has the meaning of renewing our resolve at this time of transition.

Just as the hardships and adversity under Japanese rule came to an end after 36 years, the wandering, chaos, and trials and errors we went through to maintain our independence after liberation must also come to an end at this point, 36 years later.

Our modern history has been characterized by the desire to become a sovereign nation.

At a stage when our nation and homeland are still divided, and we have not yet achieved a welfare-industrial nation with a strong economy and well-being of the entire population, this task of our national history is waiting for our hands.

We must take another giant leap in the 80s to establish a solid foundation for a prosperous welfare state.

In this sense, the 80s will be a decade of great national advancement based on stability and harmony in all fields, and a decade in which we all create the foundation of prosperity and welfare that we will pass on to our children and grandchildren.

The new era we are ushering in is a time of great creation, a time to build the strong and blessed nation that our history aspires to be.

We are on the threshold of a new era that we have been longing for.

With the inauguration of the President elected under the Constitution of the Fifth Republic today, the new Republic has been officially inaugurated. The controversial old constitution is now completely out of the picture.

However, we cannot be complacent that just because a new constitution is in place and a new government is in place, it is a new era. Only when a "new situation" unfolds with a new constitution and a new government can we truly say that a new era has blossomed.

The new situation solemnly calls upon us to part ways with the old logic of the old Constitution and the old government, and all the pains and sorrows associated with it. On such a foundation, we must gather together the will to create, to passionately pursue new values; the will to reform, to remove the toxins of unproductive inefficiency and inject new vitality into our national society; and the will to develop, to nourish our fine traditions and national orthodoxy. This will have to be translated into a strong zeitgeist at this turning point in our history.

We are now entering the 80s, a period of self-fulfillment through "growth and maturity" after a long period of trials and tribulations.

The 80s have presented us with the daunting task of perfecting a modern industrialized nation-state as a more mature independent nation.

With the inauguration of the Fifth Republic, we are entering an era of growth and maturity. As the President of this sacred new era, I recognize that the growth and maturation of our nation is a historic task that has been imposed upon me.

Although the turmoil, wars and conflicts of the past 36 years have been a very difficult and painful ordeal, our people, through their own experiences and historical lessons, have consistently yearned for liberation from three afflictions

It is

First, liberation from the threat of war.

Second, liberation from poverty.

and third, liberation from political oppression and abuse of power.

I hereby declare that during my term of office I shall work to the best of my ability and to the best of my ability and to the best of my ability and to the best of my ability to secure these three liberties for which the people have long craved, hoped for, and asked.

First, liberation from war means liberation from the horrors of war, along with the need to prevent war itself.

This undoubtedly means establishing peace on the Korean Peninsula, normalizing the living conditions of the entire Korean people, and ultimately paving the way for peaceful reunification.

We have repeatedly emphasized the need for peace on the Korean Peninsula and peaceful reunification, so today I would like to address the question of daily life.

For the past 36 years, the North Korean people have been in a situation where they can only make internal longitudinal comparisons, but not lateral comparisons with the outside world. They are living a tragic life that is completely deprived of human dignity and possibilities because they are in a situation where they cannot even taste the least bit of freedom, let alone crave for it. In other words, the quality of life of the North Korean people in terms of political, economic, social, cultural, and humanitarian aspects is unparalleled in the world, and we, as fellow human beings, cannot withhold our infinite sympathy for them.

Therefore, it is time for the North Korean authorities to reflect on the restoration of their humanity and the improvement of their quality of life, as well as to pay attention to the global humanitarian level. I take this opportunity to strongly urge the North Korean government to abandon absolute closure and open the windows of North Korean society to the outside world in order to improve the basic conditions of the North Korean people's lives.

My 1,12 proposals were not only intended to approach reunification, but also to urge North Korea to open up so that the humanity and quality of life of the North Korean people can be improved.

In conclusion, I believe that the quality of life of the entire Korean people can be improved only if they are freed from the fear of war, and therefore, I would like to take this opportunity to once again call on the North Korean authorities to accept the 1,12 proposals.

Although the DPRK has reportedly rejected the proposal, I do not consider it a formal rejection, and I expect them to accept our proposal at some point.

Second, liberation from poverty is the desire of generations of our people. Our people, who have no resources, have historically experienced poverty as a fate.

However, it is true that in the past decade, we have made great achievements through the sweat of our brow, and we have become a model country in terms of growth and distribution among developing countries.

However, I am well aware that there is still a large segment of our population that has not been able to break the cycle of absolute poverty.

In no society can all citizens be equally well off, nor is it desirable that they should be, but at least no one in this country should have to worry about the basics of living as a civilized person, and human dignity should not be threatened by material poverty.

In order to eliminate the shadow of poverty that lurks in our society and build a foundation that improves the quality of people's lives, all Koreans must work hard and cooperate.

Businessmen will have to uphold the ethics of businessmen, and workers, farmers, and consumers will have to fulfill the duties and responsibilities of citizenship that the 80s of growth and maturity demand.

The government will give top priority in its policies to eradicating absolute poverty and meeting the basic needs of the entire population, which are in the shadows of this society, but policies that do not have the understanding and response of the people are nothing but public discourse, and I look forward to your active cooperation.

Third, to ensure that political repression and abuse of power are never repeated in this land, I make it clear that I will enforce the law and lead the government by law.

Being faithful to the Constitution and upholding all its laws will be an agent of liberation from political repression and abuse of power.

Amendments to the law in favor of special interests must be avoided at all costs.

In addition to the government's example of strict adherence to national laws, I would like to emphasize that it is very important for all citizens to abide by the law.

Breaking the law and hoping for leniency from the government is a dangerous way to put power above the law, and we cannot have a true rule of law if people can break the law when it suits them, or if people can break the law with impunity.

Laws are meant to be upheld, and government officials and politicians shouldn't be exempt from them. It is fundamental to democracy that if a law is wrong, it is corrected through rational debate and constructive dialog.

Dear People!

We are convinced that only by making liberation from these three afflictions firmly ours will we be able to solidify the foundations of a modern industrial democracy and hand over to our descendants a legacy that will ensure the welfare of our people.

However, the growth and maturation of a nation is not achieved through the power of a single president or the efforts of a single government.

That's because presidents come and go, but rivalries last forever, and while governments change, nations endure.

Gone are the days when history is made by one person or a small group of leaders. Great histories can only be made right with the full participation of a great people.

This is also the basis for achieving our aspiration of peaceful regime change.

No single individual or minority group can be held responsible for a nation's people. New leaders will need to emerge periodically in order to continue to create, reform, and develop.

As a human being who is strict with himself and sincere and honest with others, and as a citizen of the Republic of Korea who wants to see the country continue to move forward, I make it clear that we must establish a tradition of peaceful regime change, which is our destiny.

Dear people!

What we aspire to is a vibrant and open society, a liberal democracy that respects human dignity, values and abilities while maximizing individual freedom and interests.

We must reconcile and synthesize diverse opinions through dialogue and transform them into national strength.

We must create consensus through reconciliation and discussion rather than conflict and faction, and it will be the engine that thickens and strengthens the tide of a new history.

Instead of creating consensus, those who try to sabotage it or stand on the sidelines will do nothing to advance national history.

People!

We are now taking the first steps of a new history. We are not arriving at the goal, but we are setting out for the goal; we have only just overcome our national difficulties, and everything is just beginning.

We have a lot of work to do and our goals are ambitious. I do not promise to accomplish them all in my seven-year term.

Instead, I like to remind myself that the beginning is half the battle. If you start strong, success is only a matter of time, and with that determination and resolve, I will put all my energy into laying the foundation for a new era.

As I assume the highest responsibility of national government at such a crucial time, I must confess that fear and anxiety prevail in light of my limited abilities.

But I have already been greatly encouraged by the maturity, cooperation, and determination to build a better future that our people have shown. Your support is multiplying my abilities and further inspiring my resolve.

Dear People!

Today, as I stand on this momentous platform, I renew my resolve.

I will be faithful to the mandate of the people who have given me their absolute support, and I will strive for the growth and maturity of the country that is yours and my home. I will usher in the new era that I have promised, and I will abide by the Constitution that I initiated and promulgated.

And as a natural man who has made honesty a tenet of his life, I will be faithful to my creed.

I expect you, the people of Korea, to pledge your full cooperation so that these pledges can be realized. When that happens, this day, March 3, 1981, will be long remembered as the day I pledged to build a great nation.

Thank you.
