Honored citizens!

7 million overseas Koreans!

Thank you, former Presidents Roh Moo-hyun, Kim Dae-jung, Kim Young-sam, and Chun Doo-hwan, as well as President Islam Karimov of Uzbekistan, President Enkhbayar Nambaar of Mongolia, Prime Minister Samdech Hun Sen of Cambodia, Acting Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda of Japan, Prime Minister Viktor Zhubkov of the Russian Federation, Vice President Muhammad Yusuf Kalla of Indonesia, and other distinguished guests from around the world.

I am here today to answer the call of the people and take office as the 17th President of the Republic of Korea. As I stand in solemn respect before the proud nation and the great people of Korea, I pledge to dedicate my life to the historic and temporal mission given to me.

I make this promise to you, the people. I will serve the people and make the country comfortable; I will develop the economy and integrate society; I will create culture and advance science and technology; I will strengthen security and lay the foundation for peaceful unification; I will fulfill my responsibilities to the international community and contribute to the common good of mankind.

This year marks the 60th anniversary of the founding of the Republic of Korea. We regained the land we had lost, built a nation, and risked our lives to protect it. All of us worked hard together, and we accomplished the task of industrialization and democratization in the shortest period of time in world history. We did it through our own will and our own strength.

We went from being the poorest country on earth to being one of the top 10 economies in the world. We went from being a taker to a giver, and we can now stand shoulder to shoulder with the most developed nations. Others call it a "miracle." We call it a "myth.

But we know: it is not a miracle, it is the crystallization of blood, sweat, and tears that we have all shed together. It is not a myth, it is the true story of the life we have lived. It is the tear-jerkingly great story of the vanguard who gave their lives for independence, the soldiers who died on the front lines, the farmers who toiled in the sun and rain, the workers who defended industrial sites day and night, and the youth who gave their youth to build democracy.

The citizens who came out of their pockets to fight the foreign exchange crisis, the volunteers who cleaned oil off the beaches in winter, and the countless employees and public servants who quietly fulfilled their duties in all sectors of society - all of them are the protagonists of Korea's success story.

Now we are able to come forward and tell this story. It is a story told with gratitude, but also with pride. This pride is the power of Korea to open the future. Now, together with you, I want to find and open a path to the future with confidence. Let's break free from the shackles of the past and move forward together toward the possibilities of the future while taking a relaxed view of the constraints of the present.

Honored citizens!

As President of the Republic of Korea, I proclaim 2008, the first year of a new 60-year period, as the year of Korea's advanced development. I declare a magnificent start toward a society that cherishes the fruits of industrialization and democratization, where each person does his or her share, and works together for the common good, a country full of abundance, caring, and dignity. In the past decade, we have stumbled and frustrated at times, but now, with the joy of our accomplishments and the pain of our failures as assets, we will begin again.

We must move beyond the "Age of Ideology" and into the "Age of Pragmatism." Pragmatism is the rational principle that runs through the history of the East and the West, and the practical wisdom that is effective in navigating the waves of globalization. It is the spirit of the times that embodies a healthy and beautiful life where man and nature, matter and spirit, and the individual and the community are in harmony. There is no you and me, no us and them, no discrimination in achieving Korea's advanced development. We want to melt class conflicts and resolve hardline struggles with a pragmatic spirit of cooperation and harmony.

A country where the government serves the people with intelligence, a country where the economy is vibrant and labor and management are united in caring for the minorities and the weak, a country that cultivates great talents and sends them out into the world and invites talents from around the world - that's what I envision for Korea. This is the dream of an advanced, first-class country that the Lee Myung-bak administration wants to achieve. Miracles will continue. The myths will continue. We will reignite the engine of development that has amazed the world and make it run even stronger. With me leading the way and you, the people, coming together as one, we can do it.

Honorable people!

At this point, we need to make a commitment together. It is to recognize the rapidly changing times and renew our resolve to change ourselves. The world is outpacing us while we are off guard. The laggards are catching up. Our competitiveness is declining, and resource and financial market instability threatens our economy. Domestically, the situation is not easy either: the middle class has shrunk and life has become more difficult for ordinary people. Relations between classes and groups are still mired in conflict and struggle. Civil society has grown quantitatively, but the assertion of rights has outpaced the sense of responsibility. A low birthrate and aging society is on the way. The burden of being a divided country is heavy.

At a crossroads that will determine the next 60 years of our nation's fortunes, I call on you, the people, to take a more active role in making changes in order to cross this historic hurdle. If we neglect change, we will fall. Those who resist change will be swept away. We must ride the tide of change and create change. We must change faster, even if it is difficult and painful. We must boldly part with the familiar if it is unreasonable or out of step with the times. The direction is openness, autonomy, and creativity.

Honorable people!

Reviving the economy is the most urgent priority. We need to unleash new growth engines so that we can grow more vigorously and create more jobs. We're going to turn government into a competent organization. We're going to make it more efficient with "small government, big markets." We're going to create a "government that works." In the future, government will be there to help people do better where they do well, and to help them where they need help.

We'll hand over to the private sector what isn't necessarily government's job. We'll introduce competition into the public sector. We'll lower taxes, so investment and consumption are revitalized. We will gradually reduce the number of government employees and quickly eliminate unnecessary regulations. You will soon see the new government working efficiently.

Businesses are the source of national wealth and the main creators of jobs. It should be easy for anyone to start a business and build a factory. We will improve the market and institutional environment so that entrepreneurs can invest and compete in the global marketplace with confidence. We will help small and medium-sized enterprises to grow into medium-sized enterprises so that they can collaborate and compete with large enterprises. We will respect businesspeople who operate transparently and fairly, and we will love businesses that invest and create jobs.

Labor and management are the two wheels that move the corporate wagon. If either one is out of whack, the cart falls over. In developed countries, labor-management disputes have been significantly reduced because both labor and management have realized that "radical struggle eventually leads to self-destruction." Self-improvement of labor-management culture is a requirement for development. It is time to end the "age of struggle" and open the "age of togetherness". Both companies and unions need to make concessions and move forward step by step.

The more difficult the time, the stronger the company must be. Enterprises must first embrace workers with transparent and fair management, and workers must work harder in such times. They must avoid illegal strikes and increase productivity, so that labor-management relations can be healthy. The government will also make efforts with principle and sincerity.

Market opening is a big trend that cannot be avoided. As a country whose export industry accounts for a large share of the economy, we need to increase our national wealth through free trade agreements. However, I am worried about the sectors that are vulnerable to opening up, especially farmers and fishermen. But we cannot stand still here,

all of our people are sons and daughters of farmers and fishermen. Worrying about agriculture, rural areas, and farmers is worrying about the country. The government will join you in coming up with countermeasures. Agriculture, forestry and fisheries should no longer remain a primary industry. We must upgrade them to competitive secondary and tertiary industries by incorporating advanced production technologies and combining them with distribution service management. We must also take steps to explore overseas markets. If farmers and fishermen and the government unite their will and gather their wisdom, we can even turn this into an opportunity for rejuvenation.
Honorable citizens!

Everyone should enjoy a humanized life, and we should be a healthy and comfortable society together. Those in need should be taken care of by the state. Benevolent and reactive welfare is not the solution. We must move towards proactive and preventive welfare. Only then can we create a world without left-behinds. Benefits will flow to those who really need them.

Women are an integral part of civil society and national development. Women's participation in society makes a society mature. We will promote gender equality policies to expand civil and social rights. We will increase opportunities and improve related systems so that more women can reach decision-making positions. We will build a childcare system that is customized to meet the needs of the life cycle and living conditions. When the government takes on the burden of childcare, it not only improves the declining birthrate, but also improves the quality of life and human resources.

We will not turn a blind eye to the suffering of the younger generation. We will help young people enter the workforce by creating more jobs at home and abroad. By stabilizing housing, we will secure a stable foundation for both personal and social life.

In the face of an aging society, measures for the welfare of the elderly are also urgent. We will make old-age pensions a reality and improve public welfare. We will increase medical benefits and facilities for the elderly, and create jobs for those who are motivated to work. We will also provide more opportunities for people with disabilities. For those who can work, a job is the best welfare. For those who cannot, the state will take responsibility and care for them.

Honorable people!

Advancement is something done by people and for people. The advancement of Korea depends on how many excellent human resources we have. Youth are the generators of dreams and vitality who will carry the future of Korea. We will actively work to develop their aptitudes and potential and strengthen their digital and global capabilities. Education reform is of utmost urgency. We need to move away from one-size-fits-all governance and closed entrance examination education. We must embrace global standards and inject autonomy, creativity, and competition into education.

We will focus on diversifying school types and increasing the competitiveness of teachers, so that public education can be normalized and the private education craze can be curbed. Students' aptitudes and creativity will be revitalized. The autonomization of universities is not only important for national competitiveness but also for the advancement of Korean society. We need to compete fiercely with the world's universities by increasing the capacity of education and research. We need to be at the forefront of the knowledge-based society.

We need to expand educational opportunities qualitatively, so that people can study even if they are poor. We will break the cycle of poverty through educational welfare.

Science rationalizes and advances society. Some of Korea's science and technology programs have reached world-class levels, but there is still a long way to go. Looking ahead to the next 20 or 30 years, we will nurture the creative capabilities of science and technology, foster excellent science students, and create a social climate that respects and favors scientists. Science and technology open the door to the future. Research and development of basic science, original technology, and mega-technology should be supported by the state with a long-term plan. We will explore ways to make the government's R&D cooperation system with universities and companies more practical.

Housing is not a property, but an infrastructure of life. We will actively promote housing welfare policies to raise the standard of residential life and stabilize housing prices.

We will reorganize the structure of the national territory in a future-oriented manner. Maritime orientation and regionalization are global trends. In any case, we will enhance the health and quality of the national territory by maintaining an eco-friendly and cultural framework.

Environmental conservation improves the quality of life, and the environmental industry creates new growth engines. Global environmental changes are threatening humanity. Weather disasters are becoming more frequent and damaging. We need to take an active role in reducing carbon emissions. Our economy will suffer in the short term as it adapts, but we need to be creative in our adaptation. We need to change our policies around food, environment, water, resources, and energy to be more environmentally friendly.

Korea is a cultural nation with a long history. The Korean Wave, which has recently gained attention on the world stage, is connected to that tradition. The modernization of traditional culture and the advancement of culture and arts will bring economic prosperity. Culture is now an industry. We need to lay the foundation for a cultural powerhouse by increasing the competitiveness of the content industry. As the level of culture increases, the quality of life increases. We must enjoy with culture, unite with culture, and develop with culture. The government intends to do its best to ensure that the power of our culture can blossom in the open space of the 21st century.

Honorable citizens!

The Republic of Korea will engage in global diplomacy with a broader outlook and a more proactive attitude, joining and exchanging with the international community. We will be friends with all countries and all people in the world, beyond differences in race and religion, rich and poor. We will participate in the peace and development of the global village, respecting the common values of democracy and market economy.

With the United States, we will develop and strengthen our traditional friendship into a forward-looking alliance, building on the historic trust between our two countries. Our solidarity with Asian countries is also very important, especially with Japan, China, and Russia, and we will strengthen our cooperation to promote peace and shared prosperity in East Asia.

We will also strive to secure resources and energy to keep the engines of our economy running stably. We will also take the lead in international cooperation for peace and the environment. In line with our economic size and diplomatic capabilities, we will conduct contribution diplomacy that embodies the universal values of humanity. We will actively participate in UN Peacekeeping Operations (PKOs) and increase ODA. We will focus on cultural diplomacy to better communicate with the international community. The combination of our traditional culture and cutting-edge technology will enable us to showcase Korea's charm to the world.

The reunification of the two Koreas is the desire of 70 million people. Inter-Korean relations should be more productive than they have been so far. We will resolve this issue not through the lens of ideology but through the lens of practicality. Our goal is to ensure that the people of the two Koreas live happily and lay the foundation for reunification. As we have stated in our 'Non-Nuclear, Open, 3000 Initiative', if North Korea gives up its nuclear weapons and takes the path of openness, a new horizon will be opened for inter-Korean cooperation. We will work with the international community to help North Koreans reach an income of $3,000 within 10 years. I believe that is the way to serve our people and the way to advance reunification.

The political leaders of the North and South should share their thoughts on how to make 70 million people live well, how to open the door to reunification while respecting each other, and for that, I think the leaders of the two Koreas should meet anytime and open their hearts and talk. That opportunity is open.

The basis of politics is to make the people comfortable and fatten them up, but politics has fallen short of the people's expectations. We cannot create an advanced first world country without changing politics. We need to create and present the direction of the country's development and practical alternatives. This is the basis of pragmatic politics: alleviating people's suffering and giving them hope.

The road seems long, but let's start with what's possible. Let's say goodbye to wasteful political practices. Let's embrace the will of the people and do something productive to alleviate their suffering. Let's open the door to dialog across party lines, cooperate with the National Assembly, and respect the will of the judiciary.

Honorable people!

A country boy who could barely put a meal on the table has risen through the ranks of a street vendor, a high school student, a day laborer, and a salaryman to become the chairman of a major corporation, a member of the National Assembly, the mayor of Seoul, and the president of the Republic of Korea. This is a country where dreams can be made, and dreams can be realized. I want all Koreans to have dreams. And I want them to work hard to realize them. I want this precious land to be full of opportunities. I want to create a country where there is hope even if you are poor, a country where you can get back on your feet even if you fall down, a country where success is guaranteed to anyone who works hard enough.

I will expand the map of Korea in the hearts of the people to the world. I will allow the world's culture to come in and create new values in this land, and I will make Korea an advanced, first-class country that exports new values to the world. This is the origin of our ancestors, the hope of our time, and the promise of our future generations. I, Lee Myung-bak, will lead the way.

It is difficult for the government alone. You, the people, must step forward together. Each of you must take action on your own. Parents must build their children's bodies and minds stronger. Teachers must work harder to teach their students. Entrepreneurs and laborers must join hands and be more enterprising. Young people must strive for self-development. Soldiers and police must protect the country and society more faithfully. Religious leaders, civic activists, and journalists must shoulder heavier responsibilities. Public officials must serve the people more sincerely. Let's start with the President.

Honorable citizens!

The task of our time, the great march toward the advanced development of Korea, has begun. Let us all move forward together, beyond the miracle of the Han River, toward a new mythology on the Korean Peninsula. I, Lee Myung-bak, will lead the way. If the people rise up together, we can do it. It will surely happen.

Thank you.
