We will usher in a new era of hope.

 

Honorable citizens of the Republic of Korea and our 7 million overseas compatriots!

 

I stand here today with the determination to usher in a new era of hope as I am inaugurated as the 18th President of the Republic of Korea.

 

I am deeply grateful to the people of Korea for entrusting me with this momentous task, and I would like to thank President Lee Myung-bak, former presidents, and distinguished guests from around the world for attending this ceremony.

 

As President of the Republic of Korea, I will fulfill the will of the people and achieve economic revival, national happiness, and cultural harmony.

 

I will dedicate my life to building a strong, prosperous, and happy Korea!

 

Dear people!

 

Today's Korea is the result of the hard work, blood, and sweat of the people.

The people's strong will and ability to do things have created a history of great achievement, with industrialization and democratization at the same time.

 

Our history, known as the Miracle of the Han River, was made possible by our great people, who worked in the mines of Germany, in the sweltering deserts of the Middle East, in factories and laboratories where the lights never went out overnight, and on the front lines in sub-zero temperatures, serving their families and their country.

 

I sincerely salute all of our people who have made our country what it is today.

 

Honorable citizens!

 

Having overcome numerous hardships and adversities in our turbulent modern history, we are now faced with a global economic crisis and security crises such as the threat of North Korea's nuclearization.

 

After the global financial crisis, capitalism is also facing new challenges.

 

Unlike in the past, we can only overcome this challenge by forging a new path for ourselves.



Pioneering a new path is not an easy task, but I believe in the people of Korea. I believe in the strength and power of our dynamic people.

 

Now, together with our proud people, I will take on the great challenge of creating a new era of hope, the "Miracle of the Second Han River".

 

We will open a new era of hope in which the happiness of each citizen becomes the size of our national power, and that power is enjoyed by all of our people!

 

Economic Revival

 

Honored citizens!

 

Today, I would like to present the direction we will take to create a new future in which national development and national happiness are in a virtuous cycle.

 

The new government will usher in a new era of hope through economic revitalization, national happiness, and cultural enrichment.

 

First, to achieve economic revival, we will promote the creative economy and economic democratization.



The global economic paradigm is changing.

 

The creative economy is the convergence of science and industry, the convergence of culture and industry, and the blossoming of creation at the boundaries between industries.

 

It's about creating new markets and new jobs based on convergence, rather than simply expanding existing markets.

 

At the center of the creative economy are the science and technology and IT industries, which are my core values.



I will elevate our science and technology to world-class levels and apply them to all fields to realize the creative economy.

 

The new government's Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning will lead the creative economy in line with this new paradigm.

 

The creative economy is all about people, and it's time for one individual to increase the value of a nation and revitalize its economy.



We will give opportunities to the many talented people working around the world to serve our country, and we will nurture domestic talents into a convergence of creativity and passion to become the mainstay of Korea's future.

 

For the creative economy to blossom, economic democratization must be achieved.

 

I believe that only when a fair market order is established can all Koreans work with hope and sweat,

 

It is an important goal of the economy that I am pursuing to foster small and medium-sized enterprises so that everyone can stand up if they work hard.

 

By eradicating various unfair practices that frustrate small and medium-sized enterprises and fixing the wrong practices of the past, I will actively support everyone to maximize their capabilities no matter what field they are working in.

 

When these economic players are united and working together, the people will be happier and the country will be more competitive.

 

I will build on that foundation to create an economic revival and achieve the miracle of the second Han River with a happy people.

 

National happiness

 

People!

 

No matter how much a country develops, it will mean nothing if the lives of its people are unstable.



An era of national happiness will be created when people are not worried about their old age and when giving birth to and raising children is a true blessing.

 

No citizen should have to fear that they may not be able to lead a basic life.



With a new welfare paradigm customized for the people, we will enable them to work happily in their jobs without any worries, demonstrate their capabilities, and contribute to national development.

 

I believe that fulfilling individual dreams and ushering in a new era of hope begins with education.



We must actively support individuals to bring out their full potential through education, and create a new system where the nation develops with the capabilities of each individual citizen as the cornerstone.

 

It has been said that those who know are not as good as those who like, and those who like are not as good as those who enjoy.



When we have more people who can enjoy learning and love their work, we can usher in an era of true national happiness.

 

The most important asset of any country is its people,

 

and our future will be frozen if we are stuck in a one-size-fits-all competition where individual talent is destroyed and creativity is stifled.

 

I believe that unlocking the potential of every student from an early age will be the driving force behind our national development.

 

We will create an education system where each student's aptitudes and abilities can be discovered and used to fulfill their own cherished dreams, and where they can be evaluated on their own merits, so that they can become excellent human resources in society.



In a society where everything is determined by academic qualifications and specifications, individual dreams and talents cannot grow and hopes cannot grow.

 

We will change our society from a meritocracy to a meritocracy so that individual dreams and talents can bear fruit.

 

Protecting the lives and safety of the people is an essential requirement for national happiness.



We will focus our government's capabilities on creating a safe society where women, people with disabilities, and anyone else can live in peace.

 

We will create a society where fair laws are realized, not force, and where the law is a shield of justice for the socially vulnerable.

 

Fostering Culture

 

Honorable citizens!

 

The 21st century is an era where culture is national power. It is a time when the imagination of each citizen becomes content.

 

Right now, the Korean Wave culture is being loved by people all over the world, bringing joy and happiness and becoming a source of great pride for the people. This is based on our country's 5,000 years of brilliant tangible and intangible cultural heritage and spiritual culture.

 

The new government will enhance the value of our spiritual culture and permeate the values of culture throughout society so that all Koreans can enjoy a cultured life.

 

We will heal social conflicts with the value of culture, bridge the cultural gap between regions, generations, and classes, and create a happier country with culture in life, welfare with culture, and culture.

 

We will support creative activities of various genres and foster the content industry that combines culture and high technology to drive the creative economy and create new jobs.

 

Together with the people of Korea, we will create a culture that unites the world beyond race, language, ideology, and customs, a culture that contributes to the peaceful development of humanity and shares joy, and a new era of life-changing "cultural prosperity.

 

To the people!

 

National happiness can only blossom when the people are comfortable and safe. I will not tolerate any act that threatens the lives of the people and the safety of the Republic of Korea.

 

We must clearly recognize that North Korea's recent nuclear test is a challenge to the survival and future of the nation, and the biggest victim will be the North Korean people.

 

We hope that North Korea will put down its nuclear weapons as soon as possible and come to the path of peace and common development.

 

We hope that North Korea will no longer turn its back on the world and isolate itself by wasting resources on nuclear and missile development, but will instead develop together as a responsible member of the international community.

 

The security situation we are facing is dire, but we cannot stay here.

 

Through the Korean Peninsula Trust Process, I want to create the foundation for a happy reunification era where all Koreans can live more prosperously and freely and fulfill their dreams.

 

We will move forward step by step to build trust between the two Koreas based on a firm deterrent.

 

Trust is built when we talk to each other and keep our promises. I hope that North Korea will comply with international norms and make the right choices so that the trust process on the Korean Peninsula can move forward.

 

The era of national happiness that I envision is an era that opens up the Korean Peninsula and contributes to the era of global happiness.

 

We will build stronger trust with the United States, China, Japan, Russia, and other countries in Asia and the oceans to ease tensions and conflicts in Asia and further spread peace and cooperation.

 

Furthermore, we will create a Korea that shares the pain of our global neighbors and contributes to solving global problems.

 

Honored citizens!

 

Today, I begin my duties as the 18th President of the Republic of Korea.



Together with you, the people, who have entrusted me with this enormous task, we will surely usher in a new era of hope.

 

The president is responsible for the country's affairs, and the people decide the fate of the country.

I hope you will give us strength and energize us as we embark on a new path for our country.

 

We are now at the starting line of a new era in which the state and the people will walk hand in hand, and national development and people's happiness will form a virtuous circle.

 

In order for us to successfully travel that road, the government and the people must believe in and trust each other and walk the path of companionship,

 

I will earn the trust of the people by making sure to create a clean, transparent and competent government. I will wash away the people's distrust of the government and build a capital of trust.

 

I call upon the people to work together for the common good, not just for themselves,

 

In hard times, we shared even a single bean. Our ancestors lived with a caring heart, picking persimmons in late fall and leaving a few persimmons for blackcurrant rice. We are a people who have lived a life of communion and sharing, of gye and pumat.

 

If we can revive that spirit once again and create a society full of responsibility and caring, we can surely create the new era of national happiness that we all dream of.

 

It will be a new model for capitalism that has lost its way, and an exemplary answer to the uncertain future facing the world.

 

I ask you, the people, to believe in me and the government,

and join us on the path to a new future.

 

Let's work together to create a new era of national happiness and hope so that all of our people can once again become the miracle workers of a new Han River!!!

 

Thank you.
