Honorable fellow citizens.

Today I stand here to be sworn in as the 16th President of the Republic of Korea. By your great choice, I have been entrusted with the honorable responsibility of running the new government of the Republic of Korea.

As I express my sincere gratitude to you, I promise to fulfill this daunting task together with you.

I would also like to express my sincere gratitude to my predecessors, including President Kim Dae-jung, and to Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi, as well as congratulatory envoys and guests from around the world, for attending this ceremony.

I would like to take this opportunity to pay my respects to the victims of the Daegu subway tragedy and extend my deepest sympathies to their families. We will do our best to create a safe society by overhauling and dramatically improving the disaster management system so that such misfortunes do not happen again.

To the people.

Our history has been one of challenges and overcoming them. For half a millennium, we overcame countless hardships on the Korean Peninsula, caught between great powers, and defended our national pride and unique culture. After liberation, we overcame division, war, and poverty to build the world's twelfth largest economy in less than half a century.

We passed from the agricultural era to industrialization and successfully entered the knowledge and information age. But now we are again facing a turning point in world history. We are at the crossroads of leap forward or backward, peace or tension.

The security situation in the world is uneasy. The situation in Iraq is tense, and the international community's concern over North Korea's nuclear program is heightened. The more so, the more we need to safeguard peace and make it more firmly rooted. The external economic environment is also challenging. Developed countries are expanding endlessly, breaking new ground. We are being asked to develop new growth engines and development strategies. Within our own society, there are many issues that will determine the fate of our nation. They await the wisdom and determination of our people.

We must overcome all these challenges. We can do it. When we, the people, come together, there is nothing we can't do. With that strength, we were the fastest in the world to come out of a foreign exchange crisis. Last year, we created the myth of the World Cup quarterfinals. Throughout the entire process of the presidential election, we have seen the flowering of participatory democracy.

Honorable people.

Now, our future cannot be confined to the Korean Peninsula. The era of Northeast Asia is dawning before us. Northeast Asia, which has been on the fringes of the world since the modern era, has now emerged as a new force in the global economy. The prediction of world scholars that the 21st century will be the era of Northeast Asia is becoming a reality. Northeast Asia's economy accounts for one-fifth of the world's total. The three countries of Korea, China, and Japan alone are home to more than four times the population of the European Union.

The Korean Peninsula is at the center of Northeast Asia. It is the bridge between China and Japan, between the continent and the ocean. This geopolitical position has caused us pain in the past, but today it offers us opportunity. The 21st century Northeast Asia is asking us to play a central role.

We have advanced brains, creativity, and a world-class information infrastructure. We also have the logistics infrastructure of the sky, sea, and land, including Incheon Airport, Busan Port, Gwangyang Port, and high-speed rail. We have the basic conditions to take the lead in the 21st century Northeast Asia. The Korean Peninsula can become the logistics and financial center of Northeast Asia.

The Northeast Asia Era starts with the economy. We must build a "community of prosperity" in Northeast Asia and contribute to the prosperity of the world through it. And one day, we must develop into a "community of peace." It is my long-standing dream that an order of peace and coexistence like that of the European Union will be established in Northeast Asia. Only then will the Northeast Asian era be complete. I firmly promise that I will make every effort to bring that day closer.

To the people.

To truly usher in the Northeast Asia Era, peace must first be institutionally established on the Korean Peninsula. It is an unfortunate legacy of the 20th century that the Korean Peninsula remains the last Cold War zone on earth, and it must be transformed into a peace zone that radiates peace to the world in the 21st century. It must be reborn as a peaceful gateway to Northeast Asia, connecting the Eurasian continent to the Pacific Ocean. We should look forward to the day when you can buy a train ticket from Busan to Paris and travel through Pyongyang, Hsinchu, China, Mongolia, and Russia to arrive in the heart of Europe.

So far, we have done a lot to promote peace on the Korean Peninsula, and the results are remarkable. Exchanges of people and goods between the two Koreas have become routine and frequent. Roads in the sky, sea, and land have all been opened. However, we are left with the challenge of gaining broader public consensus in the implementation of our policies. I intend to inherit and build on our achievements, while improving the way we implement our policies.

I will implement the "Peace and Prosperity Policy," which aims to promote peace and joint prosperity on the Korean Peninsula, based on several principles.

First, we will resolve all issues through dialogue.

Second, we will prioritize mutual trust and practice reciprocity.

Third, we will pursue smooth international cooperation based on the two-party principle.

Fourth, we will increase internal and external transparency, expand public participation, and gain bipartisan cooperation. Our policy will be a policy of peace and prosperity with the people.

North Korea's suspected development of nuclear weapons poses a grave threat to the peace of the Korean Peninsula, Northeast Asia, and the world. North Korea's nuclear development is unacceptable. North Korea must abandon its nuclear development plans. If North Korea abandons its nuclear development plans, the international community will give it much of what it wants. North Korea must choose whether it wants to have nuclear weapons or be promised security and economic support.

I would also like to reiterate that the North Korean nuclear issue must be resolved peacefully through dialogue, and not through any form of escalation of military tensions. To ensure that the North Korean nuclear issue is resolved through dialogue, we will strengthen our cooperation with the United States and Japan. We will also work closely with China, Russia, and the European Union.

This year marks the 50th anniversary of the U.S.-ROK alliance. The alliance has contributed greatly to our security and economic development, and our people are deeply grateful for this. We will continue to cherish and develop the alliance and further mature it into a relationship of reciprocity and equality. We will also expand our relations with other countries, including traditional allies.

To the people of Korea.

To usher in the era of Northeast Asia and establish peace on the Korean Peninsula, our societies must be healthy and future-oriented; they must have strength and vision; and they must continue to strive for reform and integration. Reform is the engine of growth, and integration is the stepping stone to take off.

Based on reform and integration, the new government will usher in a new era of democracy with the people, a balanced development society living together, and peace and prosperity in Northeast Asia. To reach this goal, I will make principles and trust, fairness and transparency, dialogue and compromise, and decentralization and autonomy the coordinates of the new government's state management.

We need to create new growth engines in each of our sectors. The factors that led to the financial crisis still remain a challenge to overcome. We want to reform our markets and institutions to be fair and transparent, in line with global standards, and make Korea a better place to do business and invest.

We need to start with politics. We need to create a political climate that prioritizes the welfare of the people over party politics. I would like to see a political culture that solves problems through dialogue and compromise, not confrontation and conflict. I will start by talking and compromising with the opposition.

We will continue to innovate science and technology to achieve the "second entry of science and technology." We will continue to expand the knowledge information base and foster new industries. We will cultivate culture and actively support the development of cultural industries.

Education must also be revolutionized to meet these national goals. We need to free our children from the entrance examination hell and allow them to fully utilize their talents and creativity.

For the sustained growth of our economy and the health of our society, we must eliminate corruption. We will explore structural and institutional alternatives to do this, especially through bone-crushing introspection at the highest levels of our society.

Centralization and metropolitan concentration can no longer be ignored for the sake of the country's future. Decentralization and balanced development of the country has become a task that cannot be postponed. The center and the provinces must develop in harmony and balance. The provinces must autonomously design their own future, and the center must help them do so. I will pursue this with urgent determination.

National unity is the most important task of this era. To alleviate regional divisions, the new government will take all possible measures, including the appointment of regional peacemakers. To narrow the gap between classes, including the income gap, we will improve education and the tax system. We will do our best to work with labor and management to build a culture of labor-management harmony and cooperation.

We need to create a warm society that pays more attention to the elderly and the underprivileged, and to this end, we will internalize welfare policies. We will eliminate all kinds of unreasonable discrimination. We will strive for a gender-equal society. We will take measures to support farmers and fishermen in the era of openness. We will not neglect to prepare for the arrival of an aging society.

The era of cheating and privilege must end. The perverse climate where justice is defeated and opportunists thrive must be cleaned up. Let's get our principles straight and build a society of trust. Let's build a society where those who strive to be fair succeed. Let's reward the majority of people who are honest and sincere.


My fellow citizens.

For too long, we have lived the history of the periphery, sometimes forced into a history of dependence, unable to determine our own destiny. But now we are at a crossroads. We have an opportunity to become the center of the 21st century in Northeast Asia. We must seize this opportunity.

We have a history of overcoming many challenges. We have the wisdom to turn even a crisis into an opportunity. Let's use that wisdom and strength to overcome the challenges we face today. Just as we honor our ancestors today, let our descendants in the future remember us as proud ancestors.

We are a people who can accomplish miracles when we put our minds together. Let us all put our hearts together. Let us join together in this great journey to create a new history of peace, prosperity, and leapfrogging. We will always be with you, the people.

Thank you.
