My honored and beloved countrymen,
our 7.5 million compatriots abroad,
and freedom-loving citizens of the world,

I stand here today with the calling of the times to rebuild this country into a country where the people are the true owners, based on a liberal democracy and market economy, and to fulfill its responsibilities and role in the international community.

I would like to thank the Korean people for joining us on this historic occasion.

I am also deeply grateful to President Moon Jae-in, former President Park Geun-hye, and the distinguished guests from around the world, including President Halimah Yacob of Singapore, President Postin Assange Touadera of the Central African Republic, Vice President Wang Qishan of China, former President Megawati Sukarnoputri of Indonesia, Vice President Douglas M. Harris of the United States, Senator George Fury of Canada, and Foreign Minister Hayashi Yoshimasa of Japan.

I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the people who have endured great suffering over the past two years as we overcome the coronavirus pandemic.
I would also like to thank our healthcare workers for their dedication.

Honored citizens,
Fellow citizens of the world,

The world is facing challenges that no single country can solve alone, or even with the participation of a few countries, including the pandemic crisis, changes in the trade order and reorganization of supply chains, climate change, food and energy crises, and the retreat from peaceful resolution of conflicts.

The combination of these crises is casting a dark shadow over human society.

Domestically, many countries, including Korea, are facing ultra-low growth, massive unemployment, growing polarization, and various social conflicts that are shaking and disrupting community cohesion.

Meanwhile, politics, which is supposed to address these issues, is dysfunctional due to the so-called crisis of democracy.

One of the biggest culprits is anti-intellectualism.

Science and truth are premised on the ability of people with differing views to reconcile and compromise their positions.
That's the rationalism and intellectualism that underpins democracy.

Anti-intellectualism, where the truth is distorted by excessive group conflict between and within nations, where we choose only the facts we want to see and hear, or where we use the power of the majority to suppress the opinions of others, is putting democracy in crisis and undermining faith in it.
These conditions are making it harder to solve the problems we face.

But we can do it.
Throughout history, our people have faced many crises, and each time we have come together to overcome them with wisdom and courage.

I am grateful to be entrusted with the responsibility of overcoming this crisis at this moment, and I am confident that together with our great people, we can do it.

I am also confident that we can work together with the citizens of the world to address domestic and international crises and challenges.

Honorable fellow citizens,
Fellow citizens of the world,

I believe it is very important that we share a universal value in order to meet these challenges.

That value is freedom.
We need to recognize the value of freedom properly and correctly.
We need to rediscover the value of freedom.

If you look back at human history, wherever there have been free political rights, wherever there have been free markets, prosperity and abundance have always blossomed.

Prosperity, affluence, and economic growth is the expansion of freedom.

Freedom is a universal value.
Every member of our society should be a free citizen.
If the freedom of any individual is allowed to be violated, the freedom of all members of our community is threatened.

Freedom is never a winner-take-all.
To be a free citizen, you must have a certain level of economic security and fair access to education and culture.
You can't be a free citizen without these things.

If someone's freedom is being violated or they don't have what it takes to be a free citizen, all free citizens should stand in solidarity and help.

And when people's freedoms are violated by hunger, poverty, and unlawful acts by police and military forces, not only in individual countries but also internationally, and they are unable to live in dignity as free citizens, all the world's citizens must stand together as free citizens to help.

For all to be free citizens, we must play by fair rules and have a spirit of solidarity and charity.

Honorable fellow citizens,

Let me turn to domestic issues and talk about a direction that I consider important.

In our country, excessive polarization and social conflicts not only threaten freedom and democracy, but also hold back social development.

I believe it is difficult to solve this problem without making a leap forward and achieving rapid growth.

In the process of rapid growth, many people can find new opportunities, and by increasing social mobility, we can eliminate the roots of polarization and conflict.

Leapfrogging and rapid growth can only be achieved through science, technology, and innovation.

Science, technology, and innovation will safeguard our liberal democracy, expand our freedoms, and sustain our dignified lives.

Science, technology, and innovation cannot be achieved by our country alone.

We must cooperate and stand in solidarity with many countries that have achieved scientific and technological progress and innovation by respecting freedom and creativity.

My fellow citizens,
Citizens of the world,

Liberal democracy creates peace, and peace protects freedom.
And peace is guaranteed by solidarity with an international community that respects the values of freedom and human rights.

We must seek not a fragile peace that temporarily avoids war, but a sustainable peace that allows freedom and prosperity to flourish.

No part of the world is immune from threats to freedom and peace.
The same is true for peace on the Korean Peninsula and in Northeast Asia right now.

I will keep the door open for dialog on North Korea's nuclear program, which threatens not only the peace of the Korean Peninsula, but also the peace of Asia and the world.

And if North Korea stops its nuclear program and moves toward real denuclearization, I will work with the international community to prepare a bold plan to dramatically improve North Korea's economy and the quality of life of its people.

The denuclearization of North Korea will not only bring sustainable peace to the Korean Peninsula, but will also contribute significantly to peace and prosperity in Asia and around the world.

My beloved and honored people,

We are now in the group of the world's top 10 economic powers.
Therefore, we must take the attitude of a global leader nation in actively supporting and defending universal international norms based on the values of freedom and human rights.

We must play a more proactive role in protecting and expanding the freedoms and human rights of all citizens of the world, not just our own.
It is clear that the international community is looking to Korea to play a greater role.

At this time, our country cannot separate domestic issues from international issues.
When we take the initiative to play the role that the international community expects of us, our domestic problems will find the right path to resolution.
can find the right solutions.

Based on the values of freedom, human rights, fairness, and solidarity, I will surely build a country where the people are the true owners, a country that fulfills its responsibilities and is respected in the international community, together with the great people of Korea.

Thank you.

